now to give us a progressive perspective
is independent senator from Vermont of
course Bernie Sanders he's a member of
the Progressive Caucus and about as
progressive as it gets some hoops let me
start really simple what did you think
of this speech I thought the president
said a lot of the right things I think
the devil is going to be in the details
and also the question is is whether the
president is going to fight for what he
believes or is this just rhetoric Genk
what we saw in terms of the tax deal you
remember back in December the president
really basically caved in and gave the
Republicans almost everything they
wanted in terms of the continuing
resolution the 2011 budget which I'm
going to vote against tomorrow there
were massive cuts in programs for health
care for education for infrastructure
keeping people warm I think a very bad
agreement now what the president is
saying is that he is drawing a line in
the sand and I hope very much that the
president is going to say to the
Republicans that if you refuse to raise
the debt limit if you are about to
destroy or bring chaos to the
international financial community
leading perhaps to a major depression if
you guys are prepared to do it take
responsibility but we're not going to
cave in again we're not going to be
blackmailed again you are not going to
dismember the government and cut back on
programs that tens and tens of millions
of Americans absolutely depend upon
while as the president said you give a
trillion dollars in tax breaks to the
richest people in this country who in
many ways have never had it so good so
the president's rhetoric was strong weak
on the details but the sixty-four dollar
question is is the president going to
really fight is it going to rally the
American people and say no we're not
going to bring hardship to the people
without money while we give tax breaks
to the very rich that's the issue that
remains to be seen well senator Sanders
it is apparent to me that your concern
right and towards the end of the speech
the president did say I might not get
what I want so that of course opens the
door for negotiations now obviously they
have to have negotiations I guess my
question to you is are you happy with
where the negotiations appear to begin
because the president kept referring to
that deficit commission that he put
together what's your thoughts on that no
I think you make a very good point genk
and I am NOT what often happens is we
start off somewhere in the middle or to
the right of center then the Republicans
go into the extreme right and we end up
with a settlement that is very far to
the right I think the president should
have been very clear in terms of social
security for example and saying excuse
me Social Security has not contributed
one nickel to the deficit it could pay
out every benefit over to every eligible
eligible American for 26 years has the
two point six trillion dollar surplus it
is not on the table we're not going to
discuss it now that's for another day in
terms of Medicare I think that clearly
there are financial problems there are
way ways that by getting rid of
bureaucracy within the Medicare system
we can save substantial sums of money
without doing the kinds of damage that
the Republicans want to do so again Genk
the devil will be in the detail but i
have not a great fan of that
simpson-bowles deficit reduction
Commission I think that's a bad place to
start from right you know one of my
concerns with that commission is among
other things they said social security
retirement age would be raised to 69 if
that's the model we're using you're not
happy with that solution at all and they
were going to also in addition to that
cut benefits of for many many workers it
is not a good place this law firm and
also most importantly we have to
separate the whole issue of how we deal
with the deficit which is very important
from Social Security and how we make
sure that that remains strong for 75
years these are separate issues because
Social Security is paid for by the
payroll tax has a huge surplus right now
hasn't contributed one nickel to the
deficit and it is only republican
ideology and propaganda which is trying
to bring these two
shoes together all right senator Sanders
honestly I didn't know where you were to
come out on this and I says concern for
me that's what accents ok we'll we'll
see how it plays out obviously thank you
for joining us tonight really appreciate
good to be with you all right